The Four Color Theorem by Vaughn Komorech

What is it?
It is an overview of the Four Color Theorem which is a problem of coloring a planar graph using only four
colors without adjacent vertices having the same color.

Why?
The Four Color Theorem is a problem which needed computer assistance to test a large quantity of test cases
to help prove the theorem. This is like our proof which has a multitude of testcases we need to solve. 
The author goes through Kempe's improper solution then goes over the proper solution which uses the same 
process of reducing complex graphs into their simplest form then using a contradiction in  the 
graph as a Reductio Ad Absurdum argument to find that if the graph isn't 4 colorable then it isn't a planar 
graph, thus it must be 4 colorable. I believe this process might be similar to our endeavor. 
We should try to use  Graph Theory and reductions to create an algorithmically optomized solution and maybe 
try to find a contradiction type proof in one of our questions. 


Games, Puzzles, and Computation by Robert Aubrey Hearn

What is it?
A book over puzzles, games, and their relation to computation. It also gives us a formalization of 
definitions when talking about puzzles. 

Why?
This paper gives mathematical definitions to games and puzzles that will be useful in our discussion/process
of solving our problems. It offers a ton of examples of different puzzles and games and the algorithmic 
logical constraint programming for their solutions. 
I think it'll be very important to study the mathematicians before us
who've pathed the road of game theory so that we can avoid some of the mistakes they did, understand the
process we need to take, and draw similarities between their puzzles and ours. I'm looking for mathematical 
formalism so that we can formalize our problem solutions and findings. 

Definitions?

Deterministic Algorithm
    An algorithm that will always produce the same output going through the same steps with a given input.
    Ex. State machines, DFS maze solver, constraint propagation sudoku, back tracking with fixed cell sudoku
Non-Deterministic Algorithm
    An algorithm that will not always produce the same output going through the same steps with a given input.
    Ex. Machine Learning black box type deals, black jack, randomness needed, randomly fill sudoku, A* with 
    random tie breaking
Constraint Logic
    The rules defining legal moves on constraint graphs.
    Ex. The movement of a bishop, a check rule on a king, the playing of a certain color in Uno
Polynomial class
    Dialectic solutions which are easy to find by a deterministic machine solved in polynomial time: O(c)
    where c is constant, O(n), O(n^2), O(n^3), O(n^x) where x is a constant real number. 
    Non Polynomial: O(2^n), O(n!), O(n^(log n)).    
    Ex. Calculating GCD, Merge sort, maximum matching
NP-Complete problems (Non-Deterministic, Polynomial time)
    Problems in computation that can be solved in polynomial time by a non-deterministic machine and
    can be verified in polynomial time by a deterministic machine. Not run a real computer but a turing machine.
Solved (My definition)
    A puzzle is either solved or not. If a puzzle is solved all the rules of the win condition
    have been met following the set of Constraint Logic on the constraint graph.
Unique
    Only one solution exists that fulfills the puzzles win condition(s) whilst following the constraint logic
    of the puzzle.  
Solvability
    Does the puzzle have a real logically fulfillable win condition found through following the constraint logic
    of the puzzle? 
Universal Quantifiers
    All elements satisfy the condition.
    Ex. For all x in P P(x) = 2y, y is an integer. For evens numbers.
Existential Quantifiers
    At least one element satisfies the condition.
    Ex. for a set P = {2,3,5}, there exists an x in p such that P(x) = 2y, for some y that is an integer.
Combinatorial Games:
    Two player deterministic games with perfect information where players aternate moves, no randomness
    Ex. Chess checkers
Turing Machine
    An abstract computational machine with assumed unlimited processing power and space. So the size of 
    puzzle doesn't matter. 
Findings?
    The puzzle is P-Verifiable. 
    We should look for a reduction: 6,1,0,5s are all good logical restraints. 
    We should search for an NP-Complete proof. 
    Currently with only a dfs search we have a non polynomial, non deterministic solution. 
    Can arbitrary Boolean logic be simulated using overlapping hexagons? Can we reduce this puzzle?